## Leads

---

#### Overview

MaaxFrame Leads module consists of individual prospects who may be interested in a product or service your organization provides. Once the lead is qualified as a sales opportunity, leads can be converted into contacts, opportunities, and accounts. There are various ways you can create leads in MaaxFrame such as via the Leads module, duplication, importing leads, etc. Once the lead record is created, you can view and edit information pertaining to the lead via the Leads record view. This documentation will go over the basics of the Leads module as well as the various options available in performing the actions related to the module.

#### Lead Fields

The Leads module contains a number of stock fields which come out of the box with MaaxFrame. The below definitions are suggested meanings for the fields, but the fields can be leveraged to best meet your organization's needs.Users with administrator or developer access have the ability to alter, remove, or add fields via Settings > Users. For more information on adding or modifying fields, please refer to the documentation in the Administration guide.

Fields | Description
---|---
Name | Lead's full name with salutation
Job Title | The lead's business title
Lead No. | This is automatically created when the lead is generated
Company | Company name of the lead is filled here
Annual Revenue | it is the total cost of revenue 
Load Demo Data | gives a checkbox for the demo data
Lead Status | The source from which this lead originated
Website | website related to lead
No. of Employess | lead company employees

Tabs | Description
---|---
Contact Information | Information related to lead contact 
Related Information | Lead Industry, Lead type, Lead source, Product
Activites Information | Related tasks and calendar with it


#### Leads Module Tab

The Leads module tab is typically located under the CRM tab on the navigation bar at the top of MaaxFrame screen. Click the tab to access the Leads list view. You may also hover on the top tab to display the menu, which allows you to perform important actions within the module.

The Actions menu allows you to perform the following operations:

Menu Item | Description
---|---
Create Lead | Opens the record view layout to create a new lead
View Leads  | Opens the list view layout to search and display leads
View Lead Reports | Displays existing drill down reports based on the Leads module

![Leads]img/Leads1.png)

If you do not see the Leads module tab in MaaxFrame, please check the following:

- The Leads module may be marked as hidden in your user preferences which will prevent the module tab from being displayed. Navigate to your user profile (upper right of MaaxFrame), click the settings tab, and check the modules section. If you see the Leads module in the Hide Modules list, simply move it to the Display Modules list. For more information on hiding and displaying modules, please refer to the Layout Options section of the Administration documentation.

- The administrator may have disabled the Leads module for your entire MaaxFrame instance. Reach out to your MaaxFrame administrator to have the Leads module displayed. For more information on displaying and hiding modules throughout MaaxFrame, please refer to the Developer Tools documentation in the Administration guide.

#### Leads Quick View

- Creating Leads

  - There are various methods for creating leads in MaaxFrame including via the Leads module, quick create, duplication, web-to-lead form. The same record view layout opens when creating the lead directly from the Leads menu and includes all of the relevant fields for your organization's leads. Please note that administrators can configure the Record View layout. For more information on configuring layouts, please refer to the documentation in the Administration guide.
 
 ***Creating Via Web-to-Lead Form*** : MaaxFrame provides a simple way to allow visitors to your website or other online location to become leads in your MaaxFrame instance. You can create a web-to-lead form in MaaxFrame and place the form on an external website. Then when a visitor to your site completes and submits the form, their information is entered into MaaxFrame as a new lead record. For more information on creating and managing web-to-lead forms, please refer to the Web-To-Lead Forms documentation.

 ![Leads]img/Leads2.png)

 ![Leads]img/Leads3.png)

 ![Leads]img/Leads4.PNG) 

- Viewing Leads

  - There are various options available for viewing lead records in MaaxFrame including via Leads list view, Leads record view, dashlets, and reports. Please note that you will only be able to see lead records as allowed by your team membership, user access type, and assigned roles. For more information on teams and roles, please refer to the Team Management and Role Management documentation in the Administration guide.

  ![Leads]img/Leads1.png)

 
- Searching Leads

  - The Leads list view includes a module search to help you locate records easily and effectively in a module-specific manner. Once the search is performed, the relevant results will be displayed in the Leads list view below. Global Search allows users to search for information across their entire MaaxFrame database as opposed to restricting search within a specific module. Please note that MaaxFrame automatically appends the wildcard character (%) to the end of your search phrase. This allows the system to retrieve all records that start with the keyword entered in the search. If you would like to broaden the search, you can use the wildcard at the beginning of your text as well (e.g. %smith). This will pull up any record that has the word “smith” in the name, regardless of how it starts or ends.

  For more information on using the various search methods as well as how wildcards are used in the different methods, please refer to the Search documentation.

- Leads List View

  - The Leads list view displays all lead records meeting the current search criteria to which your user has access. You can view the basic details of each lead within the field columns. Please note that you will only be able to see lead records as allowed by your team membership, user access type, and assigned roles. For more information on teams and roles, please refer to the Team Management and Role Management documentation in the Administration guide.

- Leads Record View

 - The Leads record view displays thorough lead information including all lead fields. Beneath the fields you can toggle between viewing a lead's subpanels of related records (Campaigns) and the lead's activity stream. The record view can be reached by clciking a lead record's link from anywhere in the application including from the Leads list view.

 Please note that you will only be able to view a lead record according to your team membership, user type, and role restrictions. For more information on teams and roles, please refer to the Team Management and Role Management documentation in the Administration guide. For more information on editing layouts, please refer to the Studio documentation in the Administration guide.

- Deleting Records

 - If a lead record is invalid or should no longer appear in your organization's MaaxFrame instance, it may be deleted from either the Leads record view or list view. Deleting via the record view allows you to delete a single record while the list view allows for mass deleting multiple records at once as well as single record deletions. Deleting lead records will not delete the related records and will only remove the relationship, so you may wish to also delete any related records to avoid orphaned records.

 Please note that your ability to delete leads in MaaxFrame may be restricted by a role. For more information on roles, please refer to the Role Management documentation in the Administration guide. Check with your system administrator if you do not see the Delete options.


- Converting Leads

 - MaaxFrame enables you to convert leads into contacts as you determine they qualify for your organization's definition of a contact (e.g. after an evaluation/qualification process or upon entering into business with the individual). When the lead is converted, a new contact record is created in MaaxFrame with a relationship to the original lead record. The Convert Lead page also gives you the option to create an account and opportunity record.

  ![Convert Leads]img/Leads5.PNG) 

- Exporting Leads

  - MaaxFrame's Export option allows users to download all fields for the selected leads to their computers as a .CSV (comma-separated values) file. This may be useful when needing to use Lead data with other software such as Microsoft Excel or to update existing records by exporting.  Due to PHP memory limitations on the server, there may be occasions when the application times out while exporting a large number of lead records. If you encounter an error when performing this action, we recommend selecting the records in smaller batches.

 Leads may be exported from the Leads list view by selecting "Export Selected" from the More menu. Users with access to the Reports module also have the option of creating or accessing reports containing specifically chosen fields for leads and their related record(s). Please note that only Rows and Columns-type reports have the ability to be exported. For more information on exporting records in MaaxFrame, please refer to the Export documentation.

 ![Export Leads]img/Leads6.PNG)

 Please note that your ability to export leads from MaaxFrame may be restricted by a role. For more information on roles, please refer to the Role Management documentation in the Administration guide. Check with your system administrator if you do not see the Export option.

- Viewing Lead Change Logs
 
 - Changes made to each lead record are tracked over time, and users are able to view the history of changes via the change log in each lead's record view. To view the change log, navigate to a lead in record view and select "Logs" inside the Actions menu. For more information on designating for audit, please refer to the documentation in the Administration guide.

  ![Leads Log]img/Leads7.PNG)